Debug Active Record Callbacks (#175)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2022/2022-12-05-find-list-debug-active-record-callbacks-in-the-console.md

---

> title: "Fimd out what Callbacks are defined on an Active Record model in the console"

Reviewer: *Find

Reviewer: *callbacks

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Find out what callbacks are defined on an Active Record model in the console"
```

> description: "Sometimes it's hars to know"

Reviewer: *hard

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Sometimes it's hard to know what is defined where"
```

layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: "2022/find-list-debug-active-record-callbacks-in-the-console"
  alt: "Three old payphones"
  credit: "Pavan Trikutam"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/71CjSSB83Wo"
---

> I was recently asked by my [First #RubyFriend mentee](https://firstrubyfriend.org) how to list the callbacks present on an Active Record model. I didn't know.

Reviewer: I think 'mentee' shouldn't be included in the link! (A super minor point!)

Author: ```suggestion
I was recently asked by my [First #RubyFriend](https://firstrubyfriend.org) mentee how to list the callbacks present on an Active Record model. I didn't know.
```

> The situation was a large legacy codebase with some large models constructed across multiple files, using various gems, custom callbacks and concerns. It was very hard to parse the callbacks by reading across multiple files.

Reviewer: *We/They were looking at a vast...with some large models defined (?) across...multiple files. They hooked into a variety of gems and featured custom callbacks and concerns.

Reviewer: *parse just the callbacks across the multiple files.

Author: ```suggestion
They were looking at a vast legacy codebase with some large models defined across multiple files. The models used various gems, custom callbacks and concerns. It was very hard to parse what methods and behaviours the callbacks were causing.
```

> They were looking at a vast legacy codebase with some large models defined across multiple files. The models used various gems, custom callbacks and concerns. It was very hard to parse what methods and behaviours the callbacks were causing.

Reviewer: Oxford comma?? 🥺

Reviewer: "...what methods" sounds a little awkward alongside "causing". Maybe just stick to "behaviours"?

Author: ```suggestion
They were looking at a vast legacy codebase, with some large models defined across multiple files. The models used various gems, custom callbacks, and concerns. It was very hard to parse what behaviours the callbacks were causing.
```

> So I found a mention of debugging callbacks in the [Rails API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Callbacks.html#module-ActiveRecord::Callbacks-label-Debugging+callbacks) and after a little digging built a simple loop you can use to find the callbacks defined on an Active Record model.

Reviewer: *I found a mention of...

Author: ```suggestion
I found mention of [debugging callbacks in the Rails API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Callbacks.html#module-ActiveRecord::Callbacks-label-Debugging+callbacks) and after a little digging built a simple loop you can use to find the callbacks defined on an Active Record model.
```

> I found mention of [debugging callbacks in the Rails API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Callbacks.html#module-ActiveRecord::Callbacks-label-Debugging+callbacks) and after a little digging built a simple loop you can use to find the callbacks defined on an Active Record model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I found mention of [debugging callbacks in the Rails API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Callbacks.html#module-ActiveRecord::Callbacks-label-Debugging+callbacks) and, after a little digging, built a simple loop you can use to find the callbacks defined on an Active Record model.
```

## Use...

...a loop in the Rails console.

Open the console.

```shell
bin/rails console
```

> Paste this code into the console to see the user-defined callbacks on a model.

Reviewer: *:

Author: ```suggestion
Paste this code into the console to see the user-defined callbacks on a model:
```

```ruby
YourModel.__callbacks.each_with_object(Hash.new([])) do |(k, callbacks), result|
  next if k == :validate # ignore validations
  
  callbacks.each do |c|
    # remove autosaving callbacks from result
    next if c.filter.to_s.include?("autosave")
    next if c.filter.to_s.include?("_ensure_no_duplicate_errors")

    result["#{c.kind}_#{c.name}"] += [c.filter]
  end
end
```

> For the `User` object (which is powered by `devise`) in my application the results look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `User` object in my application (which is powered by [Devise](https://github.com/heartcombo/devise)) the results look like:
```

Does that look like your application is powered by Devise though? The parentheses just read a little awkwardly where they currently are...but maybe you just leave it.

Author: ```suggestion
For the `User` object in my application, which uses [the Devise gem](https://github.com/heartcombo/devise) for authentication, the results look like:
```

> For the `User` object in my application, which uses [the Devise gem](https://github.com/heartcombo/devise) for authentication, the results look like:

Reviewer: *like this

Author: ```suggestion
For the `User` object in my application, which uses [the Devise gem](https://github.com/heartcombo/devise) for authentication, the results look like this:
```

> For the `User` object in my application, which uses [the Devise gem](https://github.com/heartcombo/devise) for authentication, the results look like:

Reviewer: Yess!

```ruby
=> {
  "before_validation"=>[:downcase_keys, :strip_whitespace, :set_timestamps_for_agreements],
  "after_save"=>[#<Proc:0x00000001133b94d0 /.../gems/money-rails-1.15.0/lib/money-rails/active_record/monetizable.rb:148>],
  "before_save"=>[:ensure_authentication_token],
  "after_create"=>[:skip_reconfirmation_in_callback!],
  "before_create"=>[:generate_confirmation_token],
  "after_update"=>[:send_password_change_notification, :send_email_changed_notification],
  "before_update"=>[:clear_reset_password_token :postpone_email_change_until_confirmation_and_regenerate_confirmation_token],
  "after_commit"=>[:send_on_create_confirmation_instructions, :send_reconfirmation_instructions],
}
```

> Here you can see the callbacks inserted into the `User` model by our configuration of the `devise` gem. These aren't listed in the `app/models/user.rb` file.

Reviewer: Hmmm..but earlier you say 'user-defined' callbacks...

Author: We still defined them. They just come from devise.

Reviewer: True!

Reviewer: *based on our configuration...?

Author: ```suggestion
Here you can see the callbacks inserted into the `User` model based on our configuration of the `devise` gem. These aren't listed in the `app/models/user.rb` file.
```

You can also see a dynamic `Proc`-based callback inserted by our use of the `money-rails` gem.

## How does this work?

> The `#__callbacks` method on a model is [defined as a Class method via Active Support](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/main/activesupport/lib/active_support/callbacks.rb#L68). If accessed directly (like `YourModel.__callbacks`) it contains all the details of the logic performed by an Active Record instance before or after changing its state.

Reviewer: *class

Reviewer: *...accessed directly....like calling `Your Model...`, it returns...

Author: ```suggestion
The `#__callbacks` method on a model is [defined as a class method via Active Support](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/main/activesupport/lib/active_support/callbacks.rb#L68). If accessed directly, like calling `YourModel.__callbacks`, it return all the details of the logic performed by an Active Record instance before or after changing its state.
```

> The code above just pulls out the "headline" methdo calls

Reviewer: *The code above only pulls out only the "headline" _method_ calls.

Author: ```suggestion
The code above only pulls out the "headline" method calls
```

> The `#__callbacks` method on a model is [defined as a class method via Active Support](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/main/activesupport/lib/active_support/callbacks.rb#L68). If accessed directly, like calling `YourModel.__callbacks`, it returns all the details of the logic performed by an Active Record instance before or after changing its state.

Reviewer: Not sure about the second sentence here, namely not sure it's clear what 'all the details of the logic performed...' means.

Author: ```suggestion
The `#__callbacks` method on a model is [defined as a class method via Active Support](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/main/activesupport/lib/active_support/callbacks.rb#L68). If accessed directly, like calling `YourModel.__callbacks`, it returns a complex hash structure containing the logic performed by the Active Record instance before or after changing its state.
```

> The `#__callbacks` method on a model is [defined as a class method via Active Support](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/main/activesupport/lib/active_support/callbacks.rb#L68). If accessed directly, like calling `YourModel.__callbacks`, it return all the details of the logic performed by an Active Record instance before or after changing its state.

Author: ```suggestion
The `#__callbacks` method on a model is [defined as a class method via Active Support](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/main/activesupport/lib/active_support/callbacks.rb#L68). If accessed directly, like calling `YourModel.__callbacks`, it returns all the details of the logic performed by an Active Record instance before or after changing its state.
```

> The code above only pulls out the "headline" method calls.

Reviewer: * and I've presumed the following:

> The code above only pulls out the "headline" method calls.

Reviewer 2: looking good 👍🏽  this is the only part I'm a bit confused about - any chance to include a short line what is "headline" method?

Author: ```suggestion
The code above only pulls out the main method calls.
```

Reviewer 2: thanks, much better! At least I could find a definition on google

> The code above only pulls out the "headline" method calls

Reviewer: *.

Author: ```suggestion
The code above only pulls out the "headline" method calls.
```

In the specific code above I’ve presumed the following:

> You aren't interested in seeing all the validations, like `validates_presence_of :attribute`, on a model these are stored in the callback chain as well. Hence `next if k = : validate`.

Reviewer: Make it a bullet point list?

Reviewer: This is a run-on sentence? Needs more punctuation!

Author: ```suggestion
You aren't interested in seeing all the validations: code like `validates_presence_of :attribute` creates a an entry in callback chain. We skip displaying these with `next if k == :validate`.
```

> You aren't interested in seeing all the validations: code like `validates_presence_of :attribute` creates a an entry in callback chain. We skip displaying these with `next if k == :validate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You aren't interested in seeing all of the validations: code like `validates_presence_of :attribute` creates an entry in the callback chain. We skip displaying these with `next if k == :validate`.
```

> You aren't interested in seeing all of the validations: code like `validates_presence_of :attribute` creates an entry in the callback chain. We skip displaying these with `next if k == :validate`.

Reviewer: *validations. Code like...

Author: ```suggestion
You aren't interested in seeing all of the validations. Code like `validates_presence_of :attribute` creates an entry in the callback chain. We skip displaying these with `next if k == :validate`.
```

> You aren't interested in the callbacks that automatically save the values of associated models where you `have_many :related_models`. Hence `next if c.filter.to_s.include?("autosave")`.

Reviewer: Think this could be a little clearer!

## Why?

> This code can be useful when you’re new to a complex application or model or as a debugging tool.

Reviewer: This sentence reads a little awkwardly!

Author: ```suggestion
When you’re new to a complex application this may be useful as a debugging tool.
```

> I tend to limit my use of callbacks as much as possible due to the ease with which I‘ve confused myself before, but if you’re in an unfamilar applicaiton that uses them a lot, I hope this code helps your investigation.

Reviewer: Maybe something like: helps you get up to speed/familiarise yourself it more quickly ?

Author: ```suggestion
I tend to limit my use of callbacks as much as possible due to the ease with which I‘ve confused myself before, but if you’re in a code base that uses them a lot, this might get you up to speed with the existing behaviour.
```

> I tend to limit my use of callbacks as much as possible due to the ease with which I‘ve confused myself before, but if you’re in a code base that uses them a lot, this might get you up to speed with the existing behaviour.

Reviewer: *codebase?

Reviewer: *..existing behaviour more quickly?

Author: ```suggestion
I tend to limit my use of callbacks as much as possible due to the ease with which I‘ve confused myself before, but if you’re in a codebase that uses them a lot, this might get you up to speed with the existing behaviour more quickly.
```

> I tend to limit my use of callbacks as much as possible due to the ease with which I‘ve confused myself before, but if you’re in a codebase that uses them a lot, this might get you up to speed with the existing behaviour more quickly.

Reviewer: I wish this paragraph was a little less "I"-centric, and more focused on the potential pain for the reader.

## Why not?

> Please don’t use this code in production code, _only_ for debugging and understand a new codebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please don’t use this code in production. It's _only_ for debugging and helping you to understand a new codebase.
```

> I can't think of a reason to use it in application code off the top of my head, but I’m presuming this is mostly internal Rails API and is subject to change.

Reviewer: Don't think this sentence is needed?

But if so...

"I can't think of a reason to use this in application code. Furthermore, it's mostly based on Rails's internal API and is subject to change."

Perhaps!

Author: ```suggestion
I can't think of a reason to use this in application code. Furthermore, the `__` prefix in the method name indicates this is mostly based on Rails’s internal API and is subject to change.
```

> I can't think of a reason to use this in application code. Furthermore, the `__` prefix in the method name indicates this is mostly based on Rails’s internal API and is subject to change.

Reviewer: Much better!
